Proof-of-work cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin, as well as tokenized on a blockchain real-world assets provide unique 
possibility to have global and transparent kind of collateral to issue new money on top of (e.g. in form of stablecoins). 
However, in practice trustless and reliable derivatives are overcollateralized, but that means inelasticity of supply. Most of community currencies have elasticity of supply, but rely on trust so they are local, often have transparency issues, and blockchain as a solution for transparency and trustless management is usually too expensive for them. 

To combine the best of both worlds, in this work we propose a new global monetary system with decentralized issuance in peer-to-peer digital environment. Notes in this system are issued and transferred over a blockchain and collectively backed by collateral or trust (or both). 
Collateral for a note comes from reserves peers may have, and, on spending a note, a peer is attaching its reserve to collective backing. At the same time, a newly issued note could be accepted by a peer without any backing provided, for example, if such a note is issued by a friend or a trusted charity. Every peer in the system is having own individual rules for accepting notes~(widely accepted but optional standards may exist at the same), which provides basis for elasticity of supply. A note can be redemeed at any time against any of reserves of agents previously signed the note. However, any agent after the first one in the signatures chain is getting redemption receipt which is indicating debt of previous signers before him, and then he may redeem the receipt against a reserve of any previous signer, with a new redeemable receipt being generated. There is redemption fee to promote circulation of notes within the system. Different kinds of collateral can be used (and attached to the same note), such as native blockchain tokens (such as Bitcoin), derivative tokens (such as stablecoins), tokenized real-world assets etc. All the notes share the same unit of account.
   
We provide implementation of smart contracts for reserve and note on top of Ergo blockchain. Currently, all the contracts are making progress on the blockchain only, but other options can be considered, for example, note trasfers can be made off-chain (using one of Layer 2 solutions) with only reserves being on-chain.

We also show how to implement a local exchange trading system and mutual credit clearing on ChainCash. Thus we can have purely trust-based monetary subsystems as well as hybrid and collateral-based ones in the same global transparent environment.