ChainCash on Layer2
===================

This article describes how ChainCash notes can be implemented on Layer2, which means a note can be created and 
transferred to any other ChainCash participant (possibly, multiple times) without blockchain transactions needed, and 
only redemption happens on Layer1, means blockchain transactions involved. 

Transfers
---------

To issue a note with value *aliceNoteValue* and spend it to Bob immediately, Alice (which has layer1 reserve in a box 
associated with singleton token *aliceReserveId*) is signing record (zeroTreeHash, aliceReserveId, aliceNoteValue, bobReserveId), where
*bobReserveId* is Bob's reserve singleton token id, and *zeroTreeHash* is root hash of empty AVL+ tree. She transfers the record
along with the signature (offchain)

Then Bob can redeem it immediately, or pay Carol with it, with possible change allowed. For that, to pay Carol 
*bobNote1Value* (and pay back self *bobNote2Value* = *aliceNoteValue* - *bobNote1Value*), Bob is creating and signing two records,
(firstTreeHash, bobReserveId, bobNote1Value, carolReserveId) and (firstTreeHash, bobReserveId, bobNote2Value, bobReserveId),
where *firstTreeHash* is hash of an AVL+ tree containing Alice's note signatures only (so it is hash of the initial tree with hash 
*zeroTreeHash* with Alice's signature for the first payment to Bob added). Bob is sending all the three records along with signatures to Carol.

Similarly, all other receivers are checking that all previous transfers, i.e. records and signatures correctness. 

As AVL+ tree contains key -> value pairs , we use synthentic counter which is starting with 0 and increasing on every transfer,
so in our example, Bob is getting tree which contains leaf with zero as key and (zeroTreeHash, aliceReserveId, aliceNoteValue, bobReserveId)
(serialized to byte array) as value. 

Redemption
----------

As stated in the intro, redemption happens via on-chain smart-contract. In this section this contract is described in general. 

If note issuer (Alice in our example) has enough reserves, redemption is taking place against her reserve. However, if her reserve is not able to cover the note, then the
next signer, so Bob in our example, will cover the redemption. If Bob's reserve is also not able to cover the note, then 
Carol does so etc.

What is presented to the redemption contract, in case of honest agent doing it, that is hash of tree containing previous transfers,
redemption reserve id (and then redemption can be done to a public key associated with the reserve).


Public Bulletin Board
---------------------



References
----------







